---
date: "2014-08-08T11:17:38Z"
title: Publishing to S3
menu:
    doc:
        weight: 30
        parent: Features
---


Publishing to Amazon S3
-----------------------

aptly could be configured to publish repository directly to Amazon S3 (or S3-compatible
cloud storage).
First, publishing endpoints should be described in aptly
[configuration](/doc/configuration/) file. Each endpoint has name and
associated settings:

-   `region`: Amazon region for S3 bucket (e.g. `us-east-1`)
-   `bucket`: bucket name
-   `endpoint`: (optional) when using S3-compatible cloud storage, specify hostname of service endpoint here,
     region is ignored if endpoint is set (set `region` to some human-readable name)
     (should be left blank for real Amazon S3)
-   `prefix`: (optional) do publishing under specified prefix in the
    bucket, defaults to no prefix (bucket root)
-   `acl`: (optional) assign ACL to published files (one of the canned
    ACLs in Amazon terminology). Useful values: `private` (default) or
    `public-read` (public repository). Public repositories could be
    consumed by `apt` using HTTP endpoint (Amazon bucket should be
    configured for "website hosting"), for private repositories special
    apt S3 transport is required.
-   `awsAccessKeyID`, `awsSecretAccessKey`: (optional) Amazon
    credentials to access S3 bucket. If not supplied, environment
    variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` are used.
- `storageClass`: (optional) Amazon S3 storage class, defaults to `STANDARD`. Other values
   available: `REDUCED_REDUNDANCY` (lower price, lower redundancy)
- `encryptionMethod`: (optional) server-side encryption method, defaults to none. Currently
   the only available encryption method is `AES256`
- `plusWorkaround`: (optional) workaround misbehavior in apt and Amazon S3
   (see [bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/1003633)) by
   creating two copies of package files with `+` in filename: one original
   and another one with spaces instead of plus signs
   <div class="alert alert-warning alert-note"><strong>Warning:</strong>
   With <strong>plusWorkaround</strong> enabled, package files with plus sign
   would be stored twice. aptly might not cleanup files with spaces when published
   repository is dropped or updated (switched) to new version of repository (snapshot).</div>
- `disableMultiDel`: (optional) for S3-compatible cloud storages which do not support `MultiDel` S3 API,
   enable this setting (file deletion would be slower with this setting enabled)


S3 bucket used for publishing should be empty initially and should not
be used to store other data, as aptly might remove objects while doing
cleanup operation. If `prefix` is configured, bucket should be empty
under the prefix (aptly won't touch any objects outside prefix).

In order to publish to S3, specify endpoint as `s3:endpoint-name:`
before publishing prefix on the command line, e.g.:

    $ aptly publish snapshot wheezy-main s3:test:

Or, with prefix:

    $ aptly publish snapshot wheezy-main s3:test:debian/

If you would like to publish public repository to Amazon S3, create
bucket, enable website hosting option at Amazon console. Specify bucket
name, region and access keys in aptly configuration under
`S3PublishEndpoints`. Use `public-read` as value for `acl` parameter.
Published repository could be added to `/etc/apt/sources.list` by using
public HTTP URL, like any other HTTP repository.

For accessing S3 based private repositories
[apt-transport-s3](https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/apt-transport-s3) should be used.
Package providing this functionality is available in Ubuntu 15.04 and Debian
Strech (currently Jessie+1). For information how to use it read docs on project
[website](https://github.com/BashtonLtd/apt-transport-s3) or read the man page
(apt-transport-s3(8)).

Other options like [apt-s3](https://github.com/brianm/apt-s3/) are also
available to use. Please don't enable website hosting option and use
`private` as value for `acl` parameter.

Install [apt-transport-s3](https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/apt-transport-s3),
[apt-s3](https://github.com/brianm/apt-s3/) or any other similar tool to
enable `s3://` transport in `apt`.

It is recommended to setup separate user in Amazon IAM for publishing to
S3. This user would have access only to one bucket for publishing and
limited operations. Sample policy (change `bucket` to match you bucket
name):

    {
      "Version": "2012-10-17",
      "Statement": [
        {
          "Sid": "Stmt1405592139000",
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Action": [
            "s3:DeleteObject",
            "s3:GetObject",
            "s3:ListBucket",
            "s3:PutObject",
            "s3:PutObjectAcl"
          ],
          "Resource": [
            "arn:aws:s3:::bucket/*", "arn:aws:s3:::bucket"
          ]
        }
      ]
    }

 
